Hello everyone and welcome to this project and this project we're going to see how kind of we apply
Python and as an open CV to actually look into some practical applications which is we're going to be
using in self driving cars for example.
OK.
So again Python has a lot of applications we can use it for for machine learning for deep learning for
just general you know like coding of programming for Web development.
And you can obviously use it as well to verify algorithms for driving cars.
And that's going again they're going to be our fun project as well.
So it's assumed that we have a camera.
OK.
For driving cause obviously we need to view the world around us.
So what we're going to do with this we're implementing a plan to put let's say camera in front of our
vehicle and that camera will take certain images.
And the idea is for perception to try to see how can the car views the world around us.
See Okay that's a pedestrian that's a stop sign that's a lane detection and so on and so forth.
Okay.
So in this exercise again it's a very simple exercise.
I'm going to teach you how can we use open CV and use python in general to actually detect lean lines
within the image.
Okay.
It's pretty interesting.
So here we have this.
This is you know this image that we paint out of of our Kemalist we have a camera that's placed on the
dashboard.
Let's see.
Okay.
And what we need to do with that we need to detect these two lane lines.
OK.
So we wanted simply put to the car.
I'm just saying that these two lines within the image is actually our lane and ignore everything else.
OK so can we think about the how can we do this in python.
So first step we need to do all the region of interest masking.
So what we're going to do that we're going to we we know that these lean's these two lines are within
that region within our image.
Correct.
OK.
So we're going to do with those we say okay so if we're looking for lane lines let's focus on this portion
of the image.
Let's ignore everything else.
So I'm going to do here is going to ignore let's say the sky we know the Villeins one I'm not going
to be here in the sky lanes we're not going to be here.
It's in the trees for example we're going to be let's say in that region of interest.
And I'm going to do here this is this exercise we're going to create what we call vision of interest
masking.
We're going to mass the region of interest and select mainly the pixels that has the lean lines in them.
You can see how can we actually do that.
So the first step is obviously that's our region interests.
OK so we're going to ignore everything else we're going to do here.
We're going to create a mask and that mask simply has uro's everywhere and has one ones here.
As you always mention or as they call before any image is presented again in some some pixels of zeros
and ones.
Zenawi In the case black Okay 255 indicates white.
Okay.
So here we have what to do with that.
Create a mask that mask has zeros everywhere.
However this region only has white.
Okay so here these pixels has 255 in them every anywhere else is just zeros.
Right.
So we're going to do with our image which is what you're paying from our camera we're getting that mask
which is again a bunch of zeros and ones somewhere.
And then if you drive somewhere and they're going to do you're going to perform or called an ending
operation and operation.
Let's think of end first you know as the multiplication summats multiplication first it's all going
to do he is going to multiply the values of pixels.
Whatever it is with the pixel by the value of the picture here in the mask.
So if we did any then you play by zero that would set it to zero which means you are simply killing
all of the pixels everywhere else and keeping the pixels only in the region of interest.
So if you take let's say any sort of year multiplied by the value here which is one which is let's say
two hundred fifty five marker play any value by one way to one of the five that will generate value.
That means you are masking but only keeping that region of interest and masking anything else.
And that's very much why you go what is going to get.
So are we going to get here.
Well we are simply going to get an image that has all zeros and we only mask our our region of interest.
Okay.
And that's the first step.
The next step is we get to and before we actually move to the next step let's go to the table here.
That indicates the ending operation so ending operation.
This is the logic the logic design is if we have zeros left to inputs.
Okay.
And this game has in zero zero and zero in the up are going to be 0 0 and 1 and we're going to be zero.
If it's 1 0 0 we're going to be zero.
If it's one of the one there meaning going to be one which makes sense because it's and that means both
conditions has to be true both conditions has to be ones.
So the path we're going to be one if any of the input is zero.
That means we'll just get to the up to be zero.
OK.
There's the whole idea of ending Gates okay or anything.
Proceed.
Okay.
All right.
OK.
The next step is.
That's the first part.
The second part is how can we actually select the pixels only with their value.
With you know the lean lean lines in it.
OK.
Any guesses.
All right.
So I hope it goes gastard So simply put here of the pixels of this lean.
The lines are actually values of one good the other white right.
Any other pixels actually agree values.
So all we could do here is first with the region of interest masking.
Second step is going to go here and do kind of pixel selection.
We're just going to go and select pixels only that has ones in them which indicates weight.
And that's it.
Then you added kind of an intelligence then you added.
Now based on the image I can actually detect my lean lines which is really powerful why it could do
afterwards you can then help that information to let's say sentell your vehicle for example can do tons
of stuff with it again within an environment with an open civil war.
All right.
And that's pretty much all for this section in the next section and show you how can we actually use
that information to develop our code.
OK.
Because I enjoyed it and see you in that section.